Deena Khattab: Hi,
I'm Deena Khattab,
a designer on
the Apple Design team.
Later, I'll be joined
by my colleagues
Jennifer and Matthew.
We're really excited to talk
through the process of designing
for Apple Watch Series 7,
but before we get started,
let's take a quick look
at what's new.
Apple Watch Series 7
comes in two new sizes:
41 mm and 45 mm.
Both watches feature
larger active content areas
than ever before.
The 41 mm is 176 by 215 points,
and the 45 mm
is 198 by 242 points.
The display on Apple Watch
Series 7 curves over the edge,
featuring a subtle
wraparound effect.
The bezel around the screen
is thinner and less visible
than ever before.
Additionally, the screen has
a larger corner radius
than previous devices.
Keeping these key hardware
differences in mind,
we identified three
useful design principles
to shape the UI.
Series 7 has the largest content
areas we've had on watch.
We enlarged UI components
to make full use
of the additional space
for enhanced usability.
We closely examined
typography and color
to create clearer hierarchy
in watch apps.
Apple Watch has always been
about lightweight,
glanceable experiences.
We took a look
at navigation and wayfinding
to offer a better sense of place
in just a quick glance.
In summary,
apps for Apple Watch Series 7
should be larger, clearer,
and more glanceable.
In the next section,
Jenn will talk about how
you can use updated UI elements
to embody these principles
in your own apps.
Jennifer Patton: Thanks, Deena.
Let's start with layout margins.
Because the corners
are so curved,
content needs
to come in and down
so it fits well in the corners.
Status bars get taller,
matched by a taller
scroll clearance margin
at the bottom of the screens.
And with the smaller bezel
between the active display area
and the hardware casing,
we were discerning about content
that nears the edges
of the screen.
Layout margins
are generous on Series 7
to give the content
plenty of room to breathe.
Matthew Koonce:
Thanks, Jennifer.
Hi there, my name is Matthew.
Let's use Stocks as an example
of how we can use margins
effectively on watchOS.
First, let's remove the margins
that are already applied.
As you can see, this layout
has a couple of issues.
Let's take a closer look.
The first issue is the text
for the current stock price.
It's very close to the edges
of the display.
This could be a problem
on the wraparound display
on Apple Watch Series 7.
The second issue
is the Nasdaq text,
which is clipped
by the corners of the display.
Additionally, we've lost
the text alignment
to the leading edge
of the navigation bar.
Let's see how we can
resolve these issues
with some SwiftUI code.
Here I have a snippet
from the Stocks layout,
which is a simple VStack.
First, we can adjust the layout
for the current price view
by using the .scenePadding
modifier.
This modifier applies
the system-defined padding
for the layout margin.
As you can see,
this resolves the layout
for the current price view.
Let's use the same
.scenePadding modifier
on the Nasdaq text below.
And once again,
this resolves our layout issues
and restores the alignment
we were looking for.
Note that we did not apply
the modifier to the day chart.
Some content,
like this chart,
is perfectly fine to go
to the edges of the display.
Try to preserve using
the .scenePadding modifier
only for text content
that would distort
or be clipped by the edges
of the display.
Jennifer: We brought large
titles into watchOS this year
to make apps more glanceable,
offer a better sense of place,
and establish clearer hierarchy
within apps.
Scrolling table views
will get this large title,
similar to large titles on iOS.
The title transitions
into the status bar on scroll.
Root levels and subviews
will get the large title.
Settings is a great example
of how large titles can be used
in an app to define
a clear sense of place.
In fixed views
that don't scroll,
we looked for opportunities
like Timer
to bring the title of the view
into the content area
and out of the status bar,
or just remove it entirely
where it's not needed,
divorcing the titling
of the view
from the Back button navigation.
We also have fixed views
where the status bar
is still the best place
for titling information,
like this world clock
detail example.
Large titles were
particularly inspired
by the larger active content
area available on Series 7
but they also work well on
previous 40 and 44 mm devices.
Matthew: SwiftUI makes it simple
to configure large titles
for your app.
By default on watchOS 8,
all navigation titles are large
and are tinted by
the application accent color.
If you do not want a large
title on a particular view,
you can use the
.navigationBarTitleDisplayMode
modifier.
After applying
this modifier,
any subsequent view
in your hierarchy
will inherit the display mode
of the view above.
Jennifer: Color is meant to help
with wayfinding,
information hierarchy,
and signal the personality
of your app.
In this Mindfulness example,
the teal color reinforces
the app identity and experience.
We use System Teal
as the app key color
and pushed back the System Gray
platter background color
to create a more muted effect.
List view apps
are common on watch.
In this Mail example,
the use of blue backgrounds
enforces that you're
in the Mail app
and not another app that uses
a similar navigation pattern.
In this example,
bright yellow platters
visually differentiate Tips
from other carousel navigation
apps like Workout.
It also reinforces
the continuity
of the Tips experience
across all our platforms.
Matthew: You can configure
your application's accent color
in the asset catalog.
After setting a color here,
all navigation bars will
automatically use this color.
More information about
configuring the accent color
can be found
in the developer documentation.
Additionally, you can easily use
the color yourself in SwiftUI
by using the
.accentColor modifier.
In Mail,
we set the listItemTint
to the application's accent
color at 30 percent opacity.
Jennifer: We also took
a close look
at buttons and button shapes
while designing
for Series 7 watches.
The current button system
looks like this.
We have rounded
rectangular buttons
that are seen
in scrolling views,
and we have a set
of pinned buttons
that are only seen in fixed
views that don't scroll.
They're pinned
to the bottom of the screen
and meant to complement
the shape of the screen.
For Series 7, we expanded
on the same basic system
of scrolling
and nonscrolling buttons.
We simplified to a common
secondary-button color scheme,
and side-by-side buttons
are switching
from a split-lozenge shape
to side-by-side pill shapes.
Here are a couple of examples
of buttons in updated apps.
A primary scrolling button
in the Alarms list at left
and side-by-side buttons in
the UIPickerView on the right.
Let's take a closer look
at these pinned button shapes.
We took great care in crafting
the shape of the buttons
for Series 7.
Here's an example
of what it would look like
to use a simple pill shape.
See how the flat plane
of the button at the bottom
creates tension with
the curvature of the display?
And here is the crafted
button shape.
I'll do that again.
The change is subtle,
but deriving
the shape of the button
from the shape
of the display itself
makes it so that these buttons
that are pinned
to the bottom of the screen
and will harmonize with
the hardware of the watch.
The updated buttons will go back
to pre-Series 7 devices too.
The height of the buttons
will remain the same,
so no updates to the layout
should be needed
for adopting these new buttons
for existing UI.
Matthew: We've updated
all buttons in SwiftUI
with the new
Apple Watch Series 7 look.
For the most part,
this happens automatically
and no changes are necessary
in your app.
That said, it's important
to keep a couple things in mind.
When you define a button,
like the Cancel button
seen here,
SwiftUI is applying some default
modifiers on your behalf.
Buttons on watchOS
use a bordered button style
and an automatic
border shape by default.
The automatic border shape
means the border shape changes
based on context.
Outside of a scroll view,
the shape is a capsule.
For example,
these Cancel and Start buttons.
In the scroll view, the button
has a rounded rectangle shape.
For example,
the Add Alarm button.
Additionally, there's
an alternative button style
called bordered prominent.
This style applies
the application accent color
to the button,
which we do in Alarms.
This gives the button
a more pronounced look
that immediately draws
your attention.
Deena: In this next section,
we'll discuss
typography updates.
Series 7 uses the same default
type sizes as Series 6:
large for 40 mm and 41 mm
and extra large
for 44 mm and 45 mm.
As a result, we gain
more character count
than previous devices.
We also used type
to improve accessibility
by adding three
larger type sizes.
Here's the Mail app at the
default type size: extra large.
And here it is at the new AX1,
AX2, and AX3.
To help those who wish to use
larger type on their watch,
we added Smart Type Suggestions.
In the setup flow,
your phone now identifies
whether you have a large
type setting implemented
and suggests a similar
type size for your new watch.
This feature
makes it easier to use
your preferred type size
from the start.
While focusing on typography,
we recommend supplementing
text labels with SF Symbols.
For apps with list view-based
navigation,
we recommend using
outlined symbols
in your application's accent
color, like Mail and Phone.
This helps with cross-platform
consistency and accessibility.
Align your symbol style
and colors across platforms
where possible.
For more information
on SF Symbols,
check out these talks
from WWDC21.
Next, we'll highlight
the new keyboard
and text input features
on Apple Watch Series 7.
Because of the larger
active screen areas,
we added a full keyboard.
For this keyboard
designed specifically for watch,
we don't draw borders
around keys.
This encourages swiping to type
while avoiding the feeling
that you can miss a tap target.
To maximize available space
for typing,
we pulled the delete key
out of the keyboard
and into the text field.
Additionally, the keyboard
allows you to customize
the autofill type
for certain use cases,
like passwords
and two-factor authentication.
Along with keyboard support,
we improved functionality
for text inputs.
The left and right accessories
can be customized
using SF Symbols.
We recommend using
your application's accent color
for both symbols
to emphasize tapability.
Use descriptive words
for input field placeholder text
and suggested list titles.
For more information
on the keyboard and text inputs,
as well as how to best use them
in your applications,
check out these WWDC21 talks.
We showed you
how to take advantage
of the new display's full
potential with scene padding,
automatic button shapes,
and hierarchical navigation.
For more resources
on designing for Series 7,
check out
"What's new in watchOS 8"
and "What's new in SwiftUI"
from WWDC21.